Bitcoin Wallet Privacy Rating - Spring 2015
============================================

<dl>
    <dt>Rank</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>Name</dt>
    <dd>Blockchain</dd>
    <dt>Type</dt>
    <dd>Wallet</dd>
    <dt>Version</dt>
    <dd>4.0.20 (android)</dd>
    <dt>Score</dt>
    <dd>
        <dl>
            <dt>Overall</dt>
            <dd></dd>
            <dt>Quality</dt>
            <dd></dd>
            <dt>Usability</dt>
            <dd></dd>
            <dt>Feedback</dt>
            <dd></dd>
        </dl>
    </dd>
</dl>

##Description##

As an offshoot of the Blockchain.info web wallet, the company was also quick amongst competitors to produce companion mobile versions of their wallet service. The Open Bitcoin Privacy Project considered ratings for both the android and web wallets provided by Blockchain.info, as they differ substantially in their functionality.

Like the Blockchain.info web wallet, users must click through additional steps to achieve basic blockchain privacy protections such as avoiding address reuse. The SharedCoin service that makes it possible for web wallet users to bolster their blockchain privacy is unfortunately not available in Blockchain.info’s mobile wallets. Because the wallet’s private keys are not determined deterministically from a seed, backups can become invalided quickly when a user opts to generate a new receiving or change address. So long as Blockchain.info continues to provide service to a given customer, however, she can recover funds from a single wallet mnemonic passphrase provided to her when she creates the account.

Like the Airbitz mobile wallet, Blockchain.info’s Android wallet relies on trusted servers to obtain balance information and broadcast new transactions to the Bitcoin network. Limiting this privacy degradation with anonymity networks such as Tor is difficult on an Android device, and requires intermediate preparations such as rooting the device and configuring traffic to route through an Orbot proxy.

##Questionnaire Response##

Blockchain's responses are listed in bold.

**Thanks for the invitation to provide clarification to the OBPP concerning our wallet. User privacy is very important to Blockchain. Our philosophy is to provide a spectrum of privacy to users to choose from based on their preferences. On one end of the spectrum, users can create accounts without providing an email or phone number, connect to us through Tor, and send all transactions through SharedCoin.**

**On the other end of the spectrum, users can connect to us on the clearnet, register with an email address, and use their mobile phone to transact and authenticate with SMS. We look forward to your feedback about ways to enhance our wallet on web, iOS, and Android to accommodate our users on all parts of the spectrum.**

**At the end of the day, our goal is to provide software options to many types of bitcoin users.**

1: Please classify your application as one of the three categories:
  * Wallet: all of the private keys needed to create a blockchain transaction are under the exclusive control of the user
  * Pseudo-wallet: none of the private keys needed to create a blockchain transaction are under the exclusive control of the user
  * Hybrid wallet: some portion of the private keys needed to create a blockchain transaction are under the exclusive control of the user

**a) Blockchain.info is a wallet -- all private keys are generated by the user’s machine, and we do not store any decryptable version of the keys.**

2: Does your application provide any type of visual warning to the user when events which may reduce their privacy or safety occur, such as:
  * Receiving funds to an address which has previously received incoming transactions

**Not currently.**

  * Backups have been invalidated by new receiving or change address creation

**Not currently. Users can enable automatic wallet backups via email if they want the wallet to be automatically backed up each time a modification takes place, but this is disabled by default. A new version of the wallet will be released soon which will obviate the need for backups after initial setup.**

  * If the wallet supports mixing, a proposed mixing transaction is easily reversible

**The web version of our wallet includes the SharedCoin feature, which is based on the CoinJoin protocol. Though not a perfect CoinJoin implementation, this feature was made resistant to sudoku analysis in early 2015. Users are alerted to the limitations of SharedCoin before using the service here: https://sharedcoin.com/ There are no specific visual indications that vary during use of SharedCoin to indicate the degree of privacy afforded.**

  * An outgoing transaction sends funds to a previously-used address

**Not currently**

  * An outgoing transaction links inputs from multiple addresses

**Not currently. When a user performs a custom send, they have an opportunity to review the transaction before it is signed and broadcast to the network. If they click on “Advanced” in the review screen, the Blockchain.info wallet will list all of the inputs that will be included in the transaction, whether they have been selected manually by the user or automatically selected by the application to constitute the desired amount of funds. However, the user interface does not explicitly warn the user about the privacy consequences of merging inputs.**

  * Network connectivity to peers or dedicated balance servers is not routed through an anonymous channel

**Our wallet does not currently provide any warning to users concerning their connection to the website through an anonymous channel, such as Tor.**

  * An outgoing transaction links inputs from multiple accounts/identities

**Our current wallet does not support accounts or identities.**

3: Does your application’s backup process involve any activity which may be visible to an external network observer?

**We do not currently perform any automatic backups of wallets. Upon account creation, users are instructed to backup their mnemonic, which encodes their wallet identifier and password. No wallet backup requires automatically, aside from caching in the browser of the encrypted wallet payload. We provide a number of ways to manually backup wallets, some of which can be visible to an external network observer (see chart below):**

| Backup Option | Visible to external network observer? |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Browser caching | No |
| Download | No, using JavaScript the wallet data is turned into a “blob” and the user is presented with a download dialogue for wallet.aes.json |
| Dropbox | Yes. Users will connect to DropBox to authenticate with the OAuth API. Wallet identifiers are not disclosed in URLs, and all communications with DropBox are encrypted with SSL/TLS.|
| Google Drive | Yes. Users will connect to Google Drive to authenticate with the OAuth API. Wallet identifiers are not disclosed in URLs, and all communications with DropBox are encrypted with SSL/TLS |
| Email | Yes. Email is not encrypted. The email will be sent to the address that the user configures for their wallet account. |
| Paper | No, uses data: uri. |

**All forms of wallet backup are AES encrypted so that the user’s wallet identifier is not in plaintext in the backup file, and the user’s password is required to decrypt the backup file.**

4: Does your application take positive steps to make change outputs indistinguishable from spending outputs, such as:
  * Randomizing the number of change outputs

**No, our wallet currently only generates a single change output**

  * Randomizing the position of the change output(s)

**When using Custom Send to a single recipient and a single change address, the change address is always listed second in the transaction and not randomized. When using SharedCoin, all inputs and ouputs are randomly shuffled by the SharedCoin server, and so change outputs are necessarily randomized:**

**https://github.com/blockchain/Sharedcoin/blob/master/website/src/piuk/website/SharedCoin.java#L1979**

  * Selecting sufficient input value such that the change output(s) closely resemble the size of the desired spend

**No, our wallet does not currently try to match change outputs with the size of a desired spend.**

  * Intentionally creating “decoy” change outputs that have a low number of significant digits

**No, our wallet does not create decoy change outputs.**

5: If your application includes mixing functionality:

  * Is it possible for a malicious participant in the mix to steal funds?

**No. All private keys are held by the users in browser and cannot be stolen by the server. Participants are unable to steal each other’s mixing funds due to the properties of the CoinJoin protocol that SharedCoin is based on.**

  * Is it possible for any participant in the mix to retain information which correlates outputs to their corresponding inputs?

**Mixing peers only retain information about their own inputs and outputs. The SharedCoin server has visibility over all inputs and outputs, and which peers they belong to. Future versions of SharedCoin may be cryptographically “blinded” to this information.**

6: If your application obtains balance information from dedicated servers:

**No. Some Airbitz and some non-airbitz servers. All peer-to-peer open source servers**

  * Is it possible to operate the dedicated servers in a manner which correlates:
    * A user’s receiving or change address to another receiving or change address in the same wallet

**All transactions are pushed through a single server. The server would be able to identify recurring addresses between several transactions. We avoid logging such data as much as possible.**

    * Any of the above with a public IP address

**Our web server is required by design to see the user’s IP address. We avoid logging such data as much as possible, except for authorization purposes (See response to software fingerprinting below). We maintain an .onion address for Tor users who wish to keep their accounts dissociated from their public IP addresses.**

    * Any of the above with a registered account 

**Lookups of the balance information for specific addresses come through the same server as the one used for logging into accounts. We avoid logging such data as much as possible.**

    * Any of the above with a persistent software or hardware fingerprint

**Our web wallet server is capable of identifying browser fingerprints unless users take steps to randomize or standardize their fingerprint. We avoid logging such data as much as possible, though some fingerprint information is collected in order to prompt users for email authorization when they attempt to download their encrypted wallet file (login) on a new machine.**

7: If your application obtains balance information by uploading a filter to network peers:
  * Are filters ever updated in a manner that allows the peer to correlate the old and new filter with the same connection?

**Our wallet does not connect directly to network peers.**

8: Does your application take positive steps to route outgoing transactions through different path to the network than the path via which it receives balance and incoming transaction information?

**No, all data is sent through the same server.**

9: If your application supports multiple accounts/identities:
  * Does your application take positive steps to route balance, incoming and outgoing transaction information through different network paths for each account/identity?

**Our wallet does not currently support accounts or identities.**

##Question Scores##

<dl>
    <dt>I A 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>I A 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>I A 2 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>I B 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>I B 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>I B 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II A 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II A 2 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II A 2 c)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II A 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II A 3 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II B 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II B 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>II B 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III A 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III A 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III A 2 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III A 2 c)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III A 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III B 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III C 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III C 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>III D 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>IV A 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>IV B a a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V A 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V A 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V A 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V B 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V b 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V B 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V C 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V C 1 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V C 2 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V C 2 b)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V C 3 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
    <dt>V D 1 a)</dt>
    <dd></dd>
</dl>
